Dictionary of properties and values accepted by [http://code.google.com/p/mapnik-utils/wiki/Cascadenik Cascadenik].

= Types =

*color*
  * Similar to CSS color, hex values represented as #RRGGBB or #RGB.

*integer*
  * Integer value, e.g. "0", "1", etc.

*float*
  * Floating point value, e.g. "0.0", "0.1", "1", etc.

*string*
  * String with mandatory single or double quotes.

*boolean*
  * Simple true or false, without quotes.

*url*
  * Link to an external resource, e.g. "url('`http://example.com/image.png`')". _file://_ and filesystem paths accepted. As in CSS, relative paths are always relative to the file containing the property.

*numbers*
  * List of numbers used for dasharray properties, e.g. "2, 4, 2, 4".

= Properties =

== Map ==

*map-bgcolor* color
  * Also accepts "transparent"

Example:

{{{
Map
{
    map-bgcolor: #6699FF;
}
}}}

== [http://trac.mapnik.org/wiki/PolygonSymbolizer Polygon Symbolizer] ==

*polygon-fill* color

*polygon-opacity* float
  * default 1.0

Example:

{{{
Layer
{
    polygon-fill: #6F9;
    polygon-opacity: 0.3;
}
}}}

== [http://trac.mapnik.org/wiki/LineSymbolizer Line Symbolizer] ==

*line-color* color
  * default "#000000"

*line-width* float
  * 0.0 - n (default 1.0)

*line-opacity* float
  * 0.0 - 1.0 (default 1.0)

*line-join* _miter, round, bevel_
  * default miter

*line-cap* _butt, round, square_
  * default butt

*line-dasharray* numbers
  * d0,d1, ... (default none)

Example:

{{{
Layer
{
    line-color: #696;
    line-width: 1;
    line-cap: butt;
    line-join: miter;
    line-dasharray: 4,4;
}
}}}

== Outline [http://trac.mapnik.org/wiki/LineSymbolizer Line Symbolizer] ==

Outlines are _only applied_ when associated line properties are defined.

*outline-color* color
  * default "#000000"

*outline-width* float
  * 0.0 - n (default 1.0)
  * This width represents the _extra_ casing added to an existing line, not the total width.

*outline-opacity* float
  * 0.0 - 1.0 (default 1.0)

*outline-join* _miter, round, bevel_
  * default miter

*outline-cap* _butt, round, square_
  * default butt

*outline-dasharray* numbers
  * d0,d1, ... (default none)

Example:

{{{
Layer
{
    /* 4 pixel base line */
    line-color: #696;
    line-width: 4;

    /* additional 1 pixel line casing */
    outline-color: #000;
    outline-width: 1;
}
}}}

== Inline [http://trac.mapnik.org/wiki/LineSymbolizer Line Symbolizer] ==

Inlines are an additional line symbolizer overlaid on regular lines.

*inline-color* color
  * default "#000000"

*inline-width* float
  * 0.0 - n (default 1.0)

*inline-opacity* float
  * 0.0 - 1.0 (default 1.0)

*inline-join* _miter, round, bevel_
  * default miter

*inline-cap* _butt, round, square_
  * default butt

*inline-dasharray* numbers
  * d0,d1, ... (default none)

Example:

{{{
Layer
{
    /* 4 pixel base line */
    line-color: #696;
    line-width: 4;

    /* 1 pixel dashed center line */
    inline-color: #fff;
    inline-width: 1;
    inline-dasharray: 3,6;
}
}}}

== [http://trac.mapnik.org/wiki/TextSymbolizer Text Symbolizer] ==

*text-face-name* string
  * Font name

*text-size* integer
  * Font size

*text-ratio* (?)
  * ?

*text-wrap-width* integer
  * length before wrapping long names

*text-spacing* integer
  * space between repeated labels

*text-label-position-tolerance* ?
  * allow labels to be moved from their point

*text-max-char-angle-delta* integer
  * Maximum angle (in degrees) between two consecutive characters in a label allowed (to stop placing labels around sharp corners)

*text-fill* color
  * Color of the fill ie #FFFFFF

*text-halo-fill* color
  * Color of the halo

*text-halo-radius* integer
  * Radius of the halo in whole pixels, fractional pixels are not accepted

*text-dx*, *text-dy* integer
  * displace label by fixed amount on either axis.

*text-avoid-edges* boolean
  * Boolean to avoid labeling near intersection edges.

*text-min-distance* integer
  * Minimum distance between repeated labels such as street names or shield symbols

*text-allow-overlap* boolean
  * Allow labels to overlap other labels

*text-placement* _point, line_
  * "line" to label along lines instead of by point

Example:

{{{
/* text style to apply to NAME column in geo data */
Layer NAME
{
    text-face-name: "DejaVu Sans Book";
    text-size: 10;
    text-fill: #000;
    text-halo-fill: #9ff;
    text-halo-radius: 2;
    text-placement: point;
    text-wrap-width: 50;
    text-avoid-edges: true;
}
}}}

== [http://trac.mapnik.org/wiki/PointSymbolizer Point Symbolizer] ==

*point-file* url
  * path to image file

*point-width*, *point-height* integer
  * px (default 4), generally omit this and let PIL handle it

*point-allow-overlap* boolean
  * true/false

== [http://trac.mapnik.org/wiki/PolygonPatternSymbolizer Polygon Pattern Symbolizer] ==

*polygon-pattern-file* url
  * path to image file (default none)

*polygon-pattern-width*, *polygon-pattern-height* integer
  * px (default 4), generally omit this and let PIL handle it

== [http://trac.mapnik.org/wiki/LinePatternSymbolizer Line Pattern Symbolizer] ==

*line-pattern-file* url
  * path to image file (default none)

*line-pattern-width*, *line-pattern-height* integer
  * px (default 4), generally omit this and let PIL handle it

== [http://trac.mapnik.org/wiki/ShieldSymbolizer Shield Symbolizer] ==

*shield-face-name* string

*shield-size* integer

*shield-fill* color

*shield-min-distance* integer
  * Minimum distance between repeated labels such as street names or shield symbols

*shield-file* url
  * path to image file (default none)

*shield-width*, *shield-height* integer
  * px (default 4), generally omit this and let PIL handle it